Added ⚡ content to `Getting Started` > `Hardware overview` (#476)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/getting-started/hardware.md

# Hardware overview

> General purpose hardware like personal computers and smartphones work great for most basic Bitcoin operations. Though In some circumstances dedicated hardware devices are optimized for the nuances of Bitcoin. We’ll explore them and how they work here. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
General purpose hardware, like personal computers and smartphones, work great for most basic Bitcoin operations. In some circumstances, dedicated hardware devices are optimized for the nuances of Bitcoin. We’ll explore them and how they work here. 
```

   height = 400
%}

> Many users backup their bitcoin recovery phrases using metal plates that have their recovery phrase etched into them. This protects the recovery phrase from physical destruction from fire and/or water. [Seedplate](https://seedplate.com/) is an example of such a product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many users back up their wallet using metal plates that have their recovery phrase etched into them. This protects the recovery phrase from physical destruction from fire and  water. [Seedplate](https://seedplate.com/) is an example of such a product.
```

> A more simple option is writing your recovery phrase on a piece of paper. Compared to steel paper can be easily destroyed making this option less secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A more simple option is writing your recovery phrase on a piece of paper. Compared to steel, paper can be easily destroyed, making this option less secure.
```

   height = 400
%}

> Bitcoin hardware wallets, also known as external signers, act like Bitcoin centric security keys. They isolate the recovery phrase, private keys, and other sensitive data from the internet and other devices.

Reviewer 2: This isn't entirely correct. Hardware wallets do not isolate sensitive data from the `internet`. As the matter a fact, majoirty of hardware wallets will force users to use third-party web-wallets that rely on their servers in order to send a transactions, leaking all sensitive information to the manufacturer. 

What most hardware wallets isolate is private key, and they just spit out the signature, which means they sign a transaction on a secure chip element, but any other sensitive data may be leaked.

For example xpub is in most cases leaked, and that's indeed a sensitive data.

And reading the paragraph below it, we may not even need this paragraph.

```suggestion
Bitcoin hardware wallets, also known as external signers, act like Bitcoin centric security keys. They isolate the recovery phrase and private keys from the internet and other devices.
```

> Hardware wallets only exchange non-sensitive information with external devices. Sensitive processes, such as signing a transaction to open a Lightning network payment channel, happen on the device. Most interactions with hardware wallets happen via desktop [software like wallets]({{ '/guide/getting-started/software/#wallets' | relative_url }}). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hardware wallets only exchange non-sensitive information with external devices. Sensitive processes, such as signing a transaction to open a Lightning network payment channel, happen on the device. Most interactions with hardware wallets happen via desktop [software, like wallets]({{ '/guide/getting-started/software/#wallets' | relative_url }}). 
```

## Nodes

> A node is a device that participates in a network. In Bitcoin, there are two types of nodes to understand: A Bitcoin node which participates in the Bitcoin network, and a Lightning node which participates in the Lightning network. For a deeper dive into what purpose these nodes serve check out the [technology primer]({{ '/guide/getting-started/technology-primer/' | relative_url }}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A node is a device that participates in a network. There are two types of nodes to understand: A Bitcoin node which participates in the Bitcoin network, and a Lightning node which participates in the Lightning network. For a deeper dive into what purpose these nodes serve check out the [technology primer]({{ '/guide/getting-started/technology-primer/' | relative_url }}).
```

   height = 400
%}

> It is quite common to have dedicated hardware to run Bitcoin [node software]({{ '/guide/getting-started/software/#nodes' | relative_url }}). Running a Bitcoin node on dedicated hardware ensures your node stays in sync with the network and is regularly verifying the network rules, increasing Bitcoin’s security. Some node software also comes packaged with other third-party applications which may benefit from dedicated hardware and more regular uptime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is quite common to have dedicated hardware to run Bitcoin [node software]({{ '/guide/getting-started/software/#nodes' | relative_url }}). This ensures your node stays in sync with the network and is regularly verifying the network rules, increasing Bitcoin’s security. Some node software also comes packaged with other third-party applications which may benefit from dedicated hardware and more regular uptime. 
```

> It is quite common to have dedicated hardware to run Bitcoin [node software]({{ '/guide/getting-started/software/#nodes' | relative_url }}). Running a Bitcoin node on dedicated hardware ensures your node stays up to sync with the network and is regularly verifying the network rules increasing Bitcoin’s security. Some node software also comes packaged with other third-party applications of which may benefit from dedicated hardware and more regular uptime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is quite common to have dedicated hardware to run Bitcoin [node software]({{ '/guide/getting-started/software/#nodes' | relative_url }}). Running a Bitcoin node on dedicated hardware ensures your node stays in sync with the network and is regularly verifying the network rules, increasing Bitcoin’s security. Some node software also comes packaged with other third-party applications which may benefit from dedicated hardware and more regular uptime. 
```

> Lightning node software can be run on a smartphone. Though, this often comes with trusting a third-party for certain node functions such as payment path construction. For this reason, dedicated hardware Lightning nodes may be a better option for those who do not want a trust-minimized setup. 

Reviewer 2: > Lightning node software can be run on a smartphone.

This is a bold claim at this stage, is there a way to run a full lightning node on a smartphone? I don't think it is, though with LDK it should be possible. cc @moneyball ?

Reviewer: It doesn't state "full node", just "node software" in general, and then explains some of the tradeoffs. Looks accurate to me.

Reviewer 2: Node software assumes a node is run? You cannot run a node on a smartphone with any LN implementation afaik.

Author: You can run a Lightning node on a smartphone - Phoenix is an example: https://phoenix.acinq.co/faq#is-phoenix-a-real-lightning-node

Reviewer 2: Interesting, wasn't aware of this. I guess eclair is the only implementation that makes this possible, will have to dig how they do it technically.

Heavy users of the Lightning Network, such as routing node operators, often run Lightning nodes on dedicated hardware. Lightning nodes require 24/7 uptime, which is much easier to achieve with dedicated hardware. Lightning nodes also require the private keys to be stored on the same device. Dedicated hardware reduces the attack surface and makes it easier to secure these keys. 

> [Plug-and-play hardware nodes](https://samouraiwallet.com/nodl) exist and make it simple to set up a dedicated hardware node. The most common way people run dedicated hardware nodes is installing a node OS, like [Umbrel](https://getumbrel.com/) or [MyNode](https://mynodebtc.com/), on a hardware device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Plug-and-play hardware nodes](https://samouraiwallet.com/nodl) make it simple to set up a dedicated hardware node. The most common way people run dedicated hardware nodes is installing a node OS, like [Umbrel](https://getumbrel.com/) or [MyNode](https://mynodebtc.com/), on a hardware device.
```

> [Plug-and-play hardware nodes](https://samouraiwallet.com/nodl) exist and make it simple to set up a dedicated hardware node. The most common way people run dedicated hardware nodes is installing a node OS like [Umbrel](https://getumbrel.com/) or [MyNode](https://mynodebtc.com/) onto a hardware device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Plug-and-play hardware nodes](https://samouraiwallet.com/nodl) exist and make it simple to set up a dedicated hardware node. The most common way people run dedicated hardware nodes is installing a node OS, like [Umbrel](https://getumbrel.com/) or [MyNode](https://mynodebtc.com/), on a hardware device.
```

See [nodes]({{ '/guide/glossary/node/' | relative_url }}) for more details.

## Mining hardware

> Miners are the backbone of Bitcoin generating new blocks which creates new bitcoin. Dedicated mining hardware, which runs dedicated [mining software]({{ '/guide/getting-started/software/#mining' | relative_url }}), exists for mining bitcoin. Various billion dollar industries have developed around the manufacture and deployment of such hardware.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Miners are the backbone of Bitcoin generating new blocks, which creates new bitcoin. Dedicated mining hardware, which runs dedicated [mining software]({{ '/guide/getting-started/software/#mining' | relative_url }}), exists for mining bitcoin. Various billion dollar industries have developed around the manufacture and deployment of such hardware.
```

   height = 400
%}

When Bitcoin was first launched back in 2009, mining hardware was mostly conducted by CPUs and GPUs. As the network grew in size, and the market around mining grew, more specialized and powerful hardware known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) became the standard mining hardware. 

> Today, most Bitcoin miners are SHA-256 ASICs. SHA-256 ASICs which are optimized to continuously execute the SHA-256 hashing algorithm with the goal of finding a suitable hash and thus mining a new Bitcoin block. Modern SHA-256 ASIC miners (2021) are capable of producing 100 trillion SHA-256 hashes per second.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, most Bitcoin miners are SHA-256 ASICs. They are optimized to continuously execute the SHA-256 hashing algorithm with the goal of finding a suitable hash and thus mining a new Bitcoin block. Modern miners (2021) are capable of producing 100 trillion hashes per second.
```
Too much repetition of " SHA-256".

   height = 400
%}

Much like traditional ATMs, Bitcoin ATMs allow the deposit and withdrawal of money. Bitcoin ATMs however allow someone to deposit fiat currencies in exchange for bitcoin. 

> Modern Bitcoin ATMs take advantage of the Bitcoin Lightning network which enables almost instant withdrawals and cheaper fees making the purchase experience more friendly and cost effective. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modern Bitcoin ATMs take advantage of the Bitcoin Lightning network. This enables almost instant withdrawals and cheaper fees, which makes the purchase experience more friendly and cost effective. 
```
Splitting up a very long sentence.

> Bitcoin ATMs are usually bound to local money transmitting laws and regulations, such as Know Your Customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) regulations. More on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitcoin_ATM).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bitcoin ATMs are usually bound to local money transmission laws and regulations, such as Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regulations. More on [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bitcoin_ATM).
```
